In this section, we're going to meet a filtering challenge using regular expressions.
This discussion is going to be fairly technical,
but we'll cover the basics of regular expressions,
which is a skill that every GA professional should have.
Regular expressions are used for advanced text matching,
and they themselves consist of text and special characters called metacharacters.
Let's go back to the landing pages report and see
at least one case in which regular expressions are needed for filtering.
We see in row two of the landing pages report that the URL contains shop by brand.
If we wanted to see all of the landing pages that contained shop by brand,
we may try to enter that into the basic filter field,
shop plus by plus brand,
Enter, and the report zeros out.
Why did that happen? That happened because
the basic filter field is actually interpreted as a regular expression,
and the plus character is a metacharacter that is not interpreted literally.
This chart may look a little funny or even intimidating
if you haven't worked with regular expressions before.
But this maps out the basic metacharacters that you would need for
regular expressions in most situations in Google Analytics.
The good news is that a little bit of rejects goes
a very long way in GA. We see in row three that
the plus symbol is actually a metacharacter that means match
any text string that has one or many of the proceeding character.
If we look at the last row of this table,
we see the escape metacharacter.
The escape metacharacter allows a metacharacter to be interpreted literally.
If we go back to the landing pages report and we add
the escape character before the plus sign and we search again.
Now, we've successfully filtered by shop by brands because
the plus sign is not being interpreted as a metacharacter,
but as a literal character.
Now in reality, we didn't actually have to use
a regular expression to filter by shop by brand.
We could have applied an advanced filter.
Include landing page contains shop by brand.
In this case, this filter would not have been interpreted as a regular expression.
So, we achieve the same filtering using an advanced filter.
But let's consider another scenario where we have to use a regular expression.
Let's exit out this current filter,
and let's say that we wanted to filter landing page by either apparel or accessories.
If we click into advanced,
we see that there's and option to add conditions to an advanced filter.
But there's no or option.
So, what do we do? This is where regular expressions come in again.
If we look at the top of this table,
we see the pipe symbol as a metacharacter,
and if there's one metacharacter that we want to be familiar with in regular expressions,
it's the pipe symbol, the or symbol.
So, if we now enter a parallel pipe accessories into the filter field,
we see that we have successfully filtered
the learning page primary dimension by either of these values.